---
layout: default
title: Templates and views 
nav_order: 65
permalink: /templates-and-views/
---

# Bricks - Templates
Fewbricks come with a very simple templating system which basically passes a Bricks collected data to a PHP-file and,
 using output buffering, generates the HTML from the PHP-file. Since the templating system is completely disconnected 
 from Bricks, you should be able to create your own or hook in to an existing template engine of your own choice.
 
The documentation on this page only applies if you want to use the built in template engine.
{: .label .label-yellow}

## Views
Views are split up in Brick templates and Brick views. The difference between them being that there can only be one 
template file per Brick and it should be responsible for outputting what the Brick is intended for. Layouts can then 
be used to wrap the HTML generated by the template as needed in the specific instance where the Brick is used.

### Brick template
For example for a headline Brick, a simplified template may look something like this (in the real world you would
probably apply some CSS-classes to it as well):

```php
<h<?php echo $data['level']; ?><?php echo $data['text']; ?></h<?php echo $data['level'] ?>>
```

Note that we use an associative array called `$data`. This, along with `$brick` which holds the Brick instance for which
 we are creating HTML, is passed to every template. You also get `$settings` which is an associative array 
 of data that can be sent to BrickTemplater when instantiating it.

### Layouts
You could then have a layout like this:

```php
<div class="col"><?php echo $html; ?></div>
```

and another layout:

```php
<div class="row"><?php echo $html; ?></div>
```

...and a third layout:

```php
<div class="container<?php echo ($settings['fluid'] ? '-fluid' : ''); ?>"><?php echo $html; ?></div>
```

Note that we are using `$html`in each of the layouts. For the first layout, this variable contains the HTML that 
was generated by the template file. For each subsequent layout, it holds the HTML generated by the previous layout. 
So the second layout will get the template files' HTML wrapped in the col-div. The third layout will get the 
first layouts' HTML wrapped in the row-div. Layouts are executed in the order they were added. As in the template, you
also get `$settings` which is the same that was sent to the template.

## Required functions in Brick classes

### getViewData()
Must return an associative array with data to be used in the template and layouts.

## Related filters
[`templater/brick_templates_base_path`](/filters/templater--brick-templates-base-path) and 
[`templater/brick_templates_base_path`](/filters/templater--brick-templates-base-path) allows you to set up templates.

[`templater/brick_layouts_base_path`](/filters/templater--brick-layouts-base-path/) allow you to set up layouts.

[`/templater/brick_views_file_name_structure`](/filters/templater--brick-views-file-name-structure/) allows you to 
change the naming convention for all view files.  
